♪ [music] ♪
- [Wes] Before we dive into any code, I
want to make sure that we're all
comfortable with the tools and the files
that we're going to be using. All too
often, you pick up a project and they just
sort of dump a GitHub repo full of files
in your lap and you really aren't sure
where to start, so let's run through all
the things that you need to be up and
running. First of all, we need Node.js,
and while we're not doing any server-side
programming, all the tooling that you use
to work with React is done in Node
so head on over to nodejs.org and
download the latest, current version.
If you don't know if you have Node
installed or not, go to your terminal and
just type node -v, and that will tell you
what version of Node you have installed.
So if it's anything less than six, I would
probably just head on over to Node.js and
re-download this, go through the installer
and you'll be up and running. We also
need React DevTools and this is available
both for Chrome as well as Firefox. And
what React DevTools are going to allow us
to do is we're going to be able to look at
the components and the state and the props
and all of the good stuff that's related
to React, and it just adds another
tab to our regular DevTool. So
that is for sure required on either Chrome
or Firefox, whatever one you're using.
Next up, we're going to be writing
something called JSX, as well as we're
going to be writing a lot of
javascript as an ES6, which is
the latest version of JavaScript.
So in order to have, like, the best syntax
highlighting both for ES6 as well as for
JSX, which is sort of like writing
HTML inside your JavaScript,
we're going to learn all about that in
this course, we need a highlighter for
your actual editor. So on Sublime Text,
which is what I'm going to be using in
this tutorial here, there's one called
Babel, and what that will do is when you
open up one of your JavaScript files, in
the bottom right-hand corner,
it should say JavaScript (Babel). So if
it just says JavaScript after you have
gone to the package control, and type
install package, and type install Babel.
I'll let you figure that out, there's
tutorials on how to install a
package in Sublime online.
Go to JavaScript, in the bottom right-hand
corner make sure you're in a .js file,
any file will do. Open all with current
extension, and then just hunt through this
list for actual Babel, and then you will
be able to see JavaScript (Babel).
It's just off my screen here, but
you can grab it from there and
that will just give us all of the syntax
highlighting we need for ES6 as well as
JSX. If you're using Atom, just go and
grab the React package for you there.
If you're using Vim, go and grab vim-jsx,
and pretty much all of the other editors
out there have some sort of
support for ES6 as well as JSX.
Next thing we need is a console or a
terminal window. We're not going to be
doing a whole lot in the terminal window,
but in order for us to start and stop all
of our actual webpack processes and deploy
this thing, we're going to be running some
commands in our terminal.
So on OS X there is a terminal built in. I
use something called iTerm 2,
as well as there's another one called
HyperTerm, which is gaining a lot of
popularity, you can grab that one. If
you're on Windows, I definitely recommend
that you go grab this one called cmder,
C-M-D-E-R, and what that will do is it
just give you, like, some nice
highlighting here, and it's already set up
for a lot of the stuff that
we're going to be doing.
You can use the default windows terminal
if you know what you're doing there,
but if you want some nicer highlighting,
go and grab cmder, so
those are all the tools that we need to
have everything up and running.
Let's jump into learning some code.
If you log into your account on
reactforbeginners.com/account,
you're going to see access to your actual
course here. What I want you to do is hop
on over to the starter files
button that we see here
and download these starter files.
Now, when you open that up, you're going
to see two folders. There's one called
catch-of-the-day, and that's where we're
going to be working out of for the entire
course. And then there's another
folder called stepped-solutions,
that's going to contain all of the
stepped code that we write throughout the
videos. Not every video is going to have
code that is significant enough that we're
going to put it in there, but sometimes if
you get, maybe on video six or something,
you get a little sidetracked and
you're not sure what went on.
You want to get back up to speed with
where the videos are, you can go into
stepped-solution, grab that code, and
bring it back into your catch-of-the-day
folder. So again, we're
only ever going to
be working out of
the catch-of-the-day folder.
What we need to do is go to this folder in
our terminal. Now if you aren't really
that comfortable moving around in the
terminal, one little trick you can do is
you type cd space, and just drag
and drop the folder into your terminal.
And what that's going to do is it's
going to complete the actual path for that
folder, and then you should be in the
catch-of-the-day folder here.
Now in order to actually use React,
because we're going to be using React,
we're going to be using a couple other
modules in here, we're going to be
bundling all of our code, we need
something that's called a module bundler.
And what that will do is, rather
than us go into our HTML file...
- [Man] Folks, quick interruption! In this
video tutorial, you'll mostly see me
referencing index.html right
inside of the catch-of-the-day.
However, Create React App and React
Scripts, they have moved that to a public
folder, which you could also put images
and any other CSS that you'd like to have
public so it doesn't matter, because
we're not editing index.html at all,
however, if you're just wondering, like,
"where's index.html? It's in the sidebar
for him, but not for me!" It's
because it's in your public folder.
That's it, continue on.
- ...and go into our script tag here, and
say script, source equals react.js,
and then like react-dom.js.
And you know how you would do this with
jQuery and all of your plugins?
Rather than popping in a new script tag
every time that we need a dependency,
what we're going to be doing is we're
writing all of our code in this index.js
as well as in all the components that were
going to be created. And we're going to
import all of the libraries as we will
need it, so we'll import React,
we're going to import
react-dom and any of the
other modules that we actually need.
Now, in order to actually work with this,
we need something called a module bundler,
and that's going to take all of our
JavaScript files and deal with the imports
and the exports, and just pack it into
this one, nice and tidy JavaScript file.
And in order to do that, we need a
bundler, and the most popular one with
working with React is called Webpack. Now
there are other ES module bundlers out
there, there's Browserify, and SystemJS,
and Rollup, and you're welcome to use
other ones if that's what you prefer, but
it seems to be that the React community
has sort of settled on using Webpack to
bundle all of their JavaScript.
And behind the scenes, we are going to be
using something called Create React App,
so Facebook actually released this just a
couple months ago and it really simplifies
all of the tooling that you need to get up
and running. If you've ever tried to
create your own Webpack file, you
know that it's just not possible.
It's a really tough thing to deal with
and it just gets in the way.
Like, we just want to learn React here, we
don't want to have to deal with,
like, files and files of configuration,
and setup, and Babel and all of that good
stuff. So what we use behind the
scenes is called Create React App,
and that uses Webpack behind
the scenes for us. In a later video,
I'm going to show you how you
can eject from Create React App,
and then you can get access to all the
nitty-gritty details of your Webpack
setup. So, in order to get up
and running with that, we've got a
package.json here, and this just contains
all of the stuff that we need to actually
build our application right here. We've
got history, and React Router,
and react-dom and all that good stuff
and then we've also got a couple dev
dependencies here, one of them being
react-scripts, which is what
Create React App uses for us. So
we want to go to our iTerm here, and we
are in the catch-of-the-day folder, and
we simply type npm install. And this is
going to read all of the dependencies that
we need from dev dependencies and our
dependencies here. It's going to go off,
fetch them and install them to
us, so I'm just going to pause it
here a sec while we
do that so after,
I don't know, a minute or so
it installed all that stuff.
A whole bunch of stuff streamed across the
screen. One thing that people ask me all
the time, is they open up their node
modules, and they go "Holy shit,
Wes, what's going on?" These are all the
dependencies that you need,
as well as your dependencies need, and
their dependencies and their
dependencies. Don't worry about
it, it's not anything not normal.
I know it seems like a lot of stuff going
on here, but that's just how the front-end
ecosystem works right now so if
you see a lot of stuff in here,
don't worry about it. Just close
up your Node modules.
You're never going to have to edit
anything actually inside of
that Node modules folder.
Now that we've installed it, we can go
ahead and actually start our Create React
App. And what that's going to do is that's
going to bundle our JavaScript for us,
as well as fire up a little server for us,
where any time we make a change to our
JavaScript or any time we make a change
to our CSS, it's going to automatically
reload that for us. So the way that we
run that, and if you look at your
package.json, we've got
a couple scripts here. And
the one that we're really just going
to be working with is npm start
and that's going to run this start
command for us as well. However,
I've got some other ones called watch,
which is going to run our start command as
well as watch our styles. When we
get into the animation video,
we're going to learn about how
do we actually watch our styles,
as well as watch our JavaScript from
re-running. And then there's build and
eject, which are going to
go in later videos as well
so, how do we run that? We
simply just run npm start,
and that's going to kick off, and look, it
just opens up a brand new blank window for
me, but you're not going to see
anything on this actual page here,
and that's because we haven't written any
React yet. But we know that this
localhost:3000, that is where it is
actually running, and anytime we make a
save to this file... If I go to my
index.js, and I just say alert
(yeah!) let's get going, give it
a save. You'll see that
localhost:3000... I didn't even refresh.
It just automatically refreshed it for me,
and that JavaSript was up and running
so let's go on to the next video,
where we actually learn how
to start writing some React.